# Invoice-Generator

BACKEND DEVELOPMENT 
Assignment Title: Invoice Generator


Assignment Guideline:

For this assignment you will use 
NodeJS Backend (mandatory)
POSTMAN (mandatory)

Objective / Problem Statement :

The task is to showcase proficiency in developing a full-stack web application using the following tech (MongoDB, Express.js, Node.js) stack. Your objective is to create a user-friendly Invoice Generator application that enables users to create, and download invoices in PDF format. The generated invoices should mirror the format from the sample provided to you.

Assignment: Building an Invoice Generator


API Endpoint1: User Login

Objective: 

Create a login api.
Here, you should have email field validation and appropriate messages for login success and failure. Upon successful login, return the Authtoken in response.


API Endpoint2: User Registration 

Objective: 
Create a Registration API which takes name, email, and password as input.
Ensure Email should be unique.
Return Proper Response and status code.

API Endpoint3: Add Product

	Objective:
	
	Here, input should should include array of products
	Products should have following property
	
	Product{
		name: string;
		qty: number;
		rate: number;
}

Here, compute GST as 18% on each Product

Add JWT Token in Authorization Headers

In the backend, store quotation data along with today's date and user id in MongoDB.

Response should include Generated PDF

Note: The generated invoices should mirror the format from the sample provided to you.


API Endpoint4: View Quotations
	
	Objective:

Pass user auth token in Authorization Headers, and return list of all pdf generated by the user.



Requirements:

Backend:

   - Set up a Node.js server using Express.js.
   - Use MongoDB as the Database to store data.
   - Implement required functionality for invoices.
 - Include a feature to generate PDF invoices with a library like `puppeteer` or any suitable   alternative.
   - Use POSTMAN to access API Endpoint
   - Ensure proper validation and error handling.


Authentication :
   - Implement user authentication (e.g., using JWT tokens) to secure the application.
   - Allow only authenticated users to create invoices.

Additional Features (Optional, Bonus Points):

   - Add Option to generate Image of invoices
   - Implement CI/CD Pipeline to generate new Image and deploy it whenever commits are made  to the repository

Sample Output : How Invoice format should look :



Evaluation Criteria:

Candidates will be evaluated based on the following criteria:

- Code Quality
- Error Handling
- Standard Guidelines have been used and implemented
- Upload your assignment on Github.
- Deploy Backend using Docker Image.



Submission Guidelines:

- Create a GitHub repository for the project and share the link.
- Include a README.md file with instructions on how to set up and run the application.
- Clearly specify any additional libraries or tools used.
- Deploy Application using Docker Container on Render/Cyclic/Railway
- Create a POSTMAN Collection to access API
- Fill and Submit the form: Click here  


Note: The assignment is designed to assess the candidate's ability to work with the MERN stack, including backend API development, and Deployment
